Add crossguard 2.0 blost post (#3119)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/crossguard-2-0/index.md

---

> title: "What's new with CrossGuard?"

Author: Eric requested we keep this branding.

> title: "What's new with CrossGuard?"

Reviewer: Is it possible to work "Policy" into the title? Agree the code name is fine to use, but for SEO and other reasons we definitely want "Policy as Code" in the title, H1, etc.

> title: "What's new with CrossGuard?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "New Policy as Code Capabilities with CrossGuard"
```

date: 2020-05-05
meta_desc: "New CrossGuard features part of Pulumi's 2.0 release"
meta_image: config.png
authors:
   - erin-krengel
tags:
   - "Policy as Code"
   - "CrossGuard"
---

> In a [previous blog post]({{< relref "/blog/announcing-crossguard-preview" >}}), I introduced CrossGuard, Pulumi's Policy as Code solution. As part of our [2.0 release]({{< relref "/blog/crossguard-2-0" >}}), CrossGuard is now generally available and has some awesome new features to improve the user experience around managing Policy Packs.

Author: 1. LOL I meant to link to Joe's 2.0 announcement. Will fix.
1. In terms of naming, crossguard 1.0 or 2.0 IDK... I will leave this one ip to @joeduffy

<!--more-->

## General Availability

> CrossGuard is now enabled for all enterprise organizations in the Pulumi Console and as always the open source offering is available for all to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CrossGuard is enabled for enterprise organizations in the Pulumi Console, and as always, the open source offering is available for all to use.
```

### Improved CLI support

> We have added richer CLI support for CrossGuard. Organization administrators can now manage their Policy Packs from the CLI. In additional to being able to publish Policy Packs, you may now enable a Policy Pack by simply running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have added richer CLI support for CrossGuard. Organization administrators can now manage their Policy Packs from the CLI. In addition to being able to publish Policy Packs, you may now enable a Policy Pack by simply running:
```

```bash
$ pulumi policy enable <organization>/<pack-name> <version>
```

> This same command can be used upgrade an already enabled Policy Pack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This same command can be used to upgrade a previously enabled Policy Pack.
```

Organization administrators may also disable a Policy Pack by running:

```bash
$ pulumi policy disable <organization>/<pack-name>
```

By default, the `enable` and `disable` commands use an organization's default Policy Group. Using the `--policy-group` flag, you can specify another Policy Group. You can also specify `latest` instead of a specific Policy Pack version to enable the latest version of that Policy Pack.

### Options, Parent, and Dependencies

> Policies now have access to more information about the resources under review. With access to the options, parent and dependencies of a resource, you can now write even more thorough policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Policies now have access to more information about the resources under review. With access to the options, parent, and dependencies of a resource, you can now write even more thorough policies.
```

You may access a [resource's options]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/programming-model#resourceoptions" >}}) via the `ResourceValidationArgs` parameter. In the below example, we enforce that all DynamoDB tables be `protected` to prevent data loss.

```typescript
new PolicyPack("aws-policies", {
    policies: [
        {
            name: "dyanmodb-table-protected",
            description: "DynamoDB tables must be protected.",
            enforcementLevel: "mandatory",
            validateResource: validateResourceOfType(aws.dynamodb.Table, (_, args, reportViolation) => {
                if (!args.opts.protect) {
                    reportViolation(`DynamoDB tables must be protected to prevent data loss.`);
                }
            }),
        },
    ],
});
```

> Access to the parent and dependencies of a resource allow you to author policies about the relationship between resources. For example, you may want to make sure that each DynamoDB table in a stack has an attached scaling policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access to the parent and dependencies of a resource allows you to author policies about the relationship between resources. For example, you may want to make sure that each DynamoDB table in a stack has an attached scaling policy.
```

    if args.resource_type == "azure:storage/container:Container" and "containerAccessType" in args.props:
        access_type = args.props["containerAccessType"]
        if access_type == "blob" or access_type == "container":
            report_violation(
                "Azure Storage Container must not have blob or container access set. " +
                "Read more about read access here: " +
                "https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-manage-access-to-resources")

storage_container_no_public_read = ResourceValidationPolicy(
    name="storage-container-no-public-read",
    description="Prohibits setting the public permission on Azure Storage Blob Containers.",
    validate=storage_container_no_public_read_validator,
)

PolicyPack(
    name="azure-python",
    enforcement_level=EnforcementLevel.MANDATORY,
    policies=[
        storage_container_no_public_read,
    ],
)
```

## Configuration

And lastly, the feature I am most excited to share with you all is Configurable Policy Packs. Using configuration, you can author Policy Packs that are reusable and flexible for your organization's various needs.

> For example, you may have a policy that restricts the allowed EC2 instance types. This set of instance may vary between your non-production stack and production stacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you may have a policy that restricts the allowed EC2 instance types. This set of instances may vary between your non-production stack and production stacks.
```

> ```TypeScript

Reviewer 3: Nit:

```suggestion
```typescript
```

new PolicyPack("aws-policies", {
    policies: [
        {
            name: "allowed-ec2-instance-type",
            description: "EC2 instance type must be of an approved type.",
            enforcementLevel: "mandatory",
            configSchema: {
                properties: {
                    allowedTypes: {
                        type: "array",
                        default: ["t2.nano", "t2.micro", "t2.small"]
                    },
                },
            },
            validateResource: validateResourceOfType(aws.ec2.Instance, (instance, args, reportViolation) => {
                const config = args.getConfig<{ allowedTypes?: string[] }>();
                if (!config.allowedTypes) {
                    reportViolation(`No EC2 instance types have been approved.`);
                    return;
                }
                if (!config.allowedTypes.includes(instance.instanceType)) {
                    reportViolation(`EC2 type must be an allowed instance type: ${config.allowedTypes}. ` +
                        `${instance.instanceType} is not allowed type.`);
                }
            }),
        },
    ],
});
```

> Using configuration, you can make this deviation, allowing larger, more costly instances only in production. We can enable this configurable Policy Pack for our Policy Group `prod-stacks` using configuration that allows for other instance types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using this configuration, you can make this deviation, allowing larger, more costly instances only in production. We can enable this configurable Policy Pack for our Policy Group `prod-stacks` using configuration that allows for other instance types.
```

> ```JSON

Reviewer 3: Nit:

```suggestion
```json
```

{
   "allowed-ec2-instance-type": {
      "allowedTypes": ["t2.medium", "t2.large"]
   }
}
```

To enable the pack with this configuration, we can save the JSON to a file called `prod-policy-config.json` and then run:

```bash
pulumi policy enable aws-policies latest --policy-group prod-stacks --config prod-policy-config.json
```

Alternatively, we can enable the Policy Pack from the Pulumi Console, as shown below.

![CrossGuard Configuration using Pulumi Console](config.png)

Configuration allows organization administrators to quickly and easily tweak Policy Packs to meet a variety of use cases.

## Wrapping Up

We've invested in improving the user experience for authoring and managing policy. Whether you're an enterprise customer or an open source user, you can get started by taking CrossGuard for a spin.

> * [Getting Started with Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Getting Started with Pulumi]({{< relref "/docs/get-started" >}})
```

> * [Getting Started with CrossGuard](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/crossguard/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Getting Started with CrossGuard]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/crossguard" >}})
```

* [Example Policy Packs](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/policy-packs)

> The Getting Started with Policy as Code webinar recording is also a great resource for seeing these features in action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Getting Started with Policy as Code webinar recording is also a excellent resource for seeing these features in action.
```
